# Experiments

This directory encompasses all the experiments performed. The commit lists used are linked in the `~/dbms-live-patching/commits/` directory, which by default reference the commit lists generated by us (`~/dbms-live-patching/commits/paper/`).

- Approximate **time** until all experiments are performed: **100 hours**
- Approximate **disk space** used after running all experiments: **365 GB**
  - 100 GB measurement results
  - 265 GB experiment execution data (e.g., compiled binaries, database data directory etc.)

## Linux Kernel

The experiments must be executed using the ***MMView*** Linux kernel.

```
cd ~
./kernel-mmview
sudo reboot
```

## Experiments

Please set the CPU core frequency of the host system to maximum (on host system: `sudo cpupower frequency-set -g performance`). 

The following script encompasses all the commands detailed in this section, allowing all experiments to be executed automatically. However, it is advisable to review all the steps in this document beforehand to make adjustments to certain hardware dependent settings.

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments
# Executes all experiments.
./do-all
```

### Notes

#### Experiment Results

The results of the experiments are stored in the `~/dbms-live-patching/data/` directory. Each experiment has its own predefined directory within this location. Additionally, the result directories are linked within the respective experiment directories for easy access.

#### MariaDB ([mariadb](mariadb) directory)

- Experiments are defined using configuration files prefixed with `config-`. These files can inherit settings from other configuration files, such as `config-common.yaml`. The `patch-benchmark` utility parses these configuration files, executing the defined experiment or benchmark accordingly.
  - To adjust the CPU taskset based on the available number of CPU cores, modify the respective values (`taskset_start`, `taskset_end`, and `taskset_step`) in:
    - `config-one-thread-per-connection.yaml`
    - `config-threadpool.yaml`
- Scripts prefixed with `do-<EXPERIMENT>` execute a specific experiment, with the results stored in directories labeled `result-<EXPERIMENT>`.
- `./download-mariadb-dataset` downloads the MariaDB database directories used by us. We recommend to execute this command before starting the experiments, to perform the benchmarks on the exactly same dataset we used.
- The `benchbase-config/` directory contains the configuration files of BenchBase (benchmark framework).

#### NoOp Benchmark

BenchBase is a benchmarking framework written in Java. In some earlier research [1], we have shown that the Java Garbage Collector can influence latency measurements, especially when using the high-throughput NoOp (no operation) benchmark. Therefore, we use for this benchmark the Epsilon Garbage Collector and pre-allocate 140 GB of main memory. The configuration can be found in:

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/mariadb
# All configuration files with the prefix:
# config-noop*
# The value specifying the amount of main memory used:
# jvm_heap_size: 140
```

If you prefer to disable the Epsilon Garbage Collector (and are willing to accept potential latencies from garbage collection), simply remove the `jvm_heap_size` line.

[1] Michael Fruth, Stefanie Scherzinger,Wolfgang Mauerer, and Ralf Ramsauer. 2021. *Tell-Tale Tail Latencies: Pitfalls and Perils in Database Benchmarking*. In Proc. TPCTC, Vol. 13169. 119–134.

### MariaDB - Teaser (Figure 1)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/mariadb-one-by-one
./setup
./run
```

#### Description

Live patching of MariaDB through four code versions while scaling the number of connections. The directory `mariadb-git-patches/` contains the custom crafted code changes (which modify the result of the `SELECT 1` query). 

### MariaDB - OLTP Benchmarks (Figure 5 and 8)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/mariadb

# Prepare tools
./setup

# Use our database directories
./download-mariadb-dataset

# One-Thread-per-Connection
./do-noop-one-thread-per-connection
./do-ycsb-one-thread-per-connection
./do-tpcc-one-thread-per-connection

# Thread Pool
./do-noop-threadpool
./do-ycsb-threadpool
./do-tpcc-threadpool
```

#### Description

Executes the NoOp, YCSB and TPC-C benchmark against MariaDB. Each benchmark is executed five times, while the patch is applied at a different time (after 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25 seconds). All of this is done for the global and local quiescence method and for all five patches of MariaDB, i.e., for all five different versions of MariaDB.

### MariaDB - OLAP Benchmarks (Figure 6)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/mariadb

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

# Download was already performed
# ./download-mariadb-dataset

# If the download of the dataset was *NOT* performed, 
# create the ch-dataset before executing the benchmark:
# ./create-ch-data-output

./do-ch-one-thread-per-connection
```

#### Description

Executes a customized version of the CH-benCHmark, concentrating solely on OLAP queries. Refer to `benchbase-config/benchbase-ch-10-config.xml` for precise configuration details. The modified benchmark runs across all five patches of MariaDB, with one run employing global quiescence and another run using local quiescence.

Typically, the BenchBase configuration file used for benchmarking also handles dataset loading. However, since the OLTP portion of the CH-benCHmark configuration has been removed, standard dataset loading isn't feasible. Hence, the `benchbase-config/benchbase-ch-10-load-config.xml` configuration file is utilized for dataset loading. Dataset creation is automated via `./create-ch-data-output`. This step is unnecessary if you have downloaded our database directories (see note above).

### MariaDB - Synchronization Time (Figure 7)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/mariadb

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

# Download was already performed
# ./download-mariadb-dataset

# One-Thread-per-Connection
./do-noop-one-thread-per-connection-every
./do-ycsb-one-thread-per-connection-every
./do-tpcc-one-thread-per-connection-every

# Thread Pool
./do-noop-threadpool-every
./do-ycsb-threadpool-every
./do-tpcc-threadpool-every
```

#### Description

Executes the NoOp, YCSB, and TPC-C benchmarks while triggering patch application every 0.1 seconds, although no actual patch is applied. This experiment is performed for all five versions of MariaDB. Additionally, various thread pool sizes are employed for the thread pool connection policy, as specified in `config-threadpool-every.yaml`.

### Redis - Impact of database state on maximum query latency (Figure 9)

***CAUTION:*** This experiment is ***highly system dependent***, i.e., you may have to tweak some parameters to match your system (all details explained below).

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/redis-fork-vs-wfpatch
./benchmark
```

#### Description

In this experiment, Redis is loaded with data using `SET` requests to achieve a large memory state. While Redis remains under load from these `SET` requests, we perform the following action once, each in a separate run: (1) do nothing, (2) execute a `fork`, and (3) clone an address space. The latency of each `SET` request is measured. This experiment is repeated across 200 different memory states.

##### System Dependent Options

```
# Open the benchmark script, e.g.:
vim benchmark
```

###### Queries per Second

The script makes assumptions about the queries per second (QPS) executed on the system. Here's a high-level overview of how the script functions:

1. Start Redis.
2. Start the Redis benchmark issuing `SET` requests.
3. While the Redis benchmark is running, wait for a certain period to load the memory state.
4. Apply the respective action (nothing, `fork`, or address space cloning) while the benchmark is still active.
5. Wait until the benchmark completes.

It is crucial to perform the respective action while the benchmark is still running. We estimate the total duration of the benchmark based on the queries per second, which depends on the hardware used. The following script illustrates the process in detail (modified slightly for better explanation; the actual code is in the `benchmark` script):

```bash
qps=4500
for load_duration in `seq 1 200`; do
    for method in nothing fork clone; do
        # Add 10 seconds which is needed to perform the action
        total_queries=$((qps * (load_duration + 10)))
				
				# Start Redis
        ./redis-server ... & 
        sleep 2
        
        # Start Redis benchmark
        ./redis-benchmark -t set -n $total_queries ... &
        # Wait $load_duration seconds
        sleep $load_duration
        
        # Perform action
        echo ${method} > /tmp/trigger-redis
```

> Having an accurate QPS value is essential. If the QPS is too low, the Redis benchmark may finish before the action (such as a fork or address space cloning) can be performed. This would prevent the benchmark from recording the latency of these actions or their impact on the client side. Therefore, a precise QPS value is critical.

We provide a small script to determine the number of queries per second on your system:

```bash
./find-qps

# Output:
"test","rps","avg_latency_ms","min_latency_ms","p50_latency_ms","p95_latency_ms","p99_latency_ms","max_latency_ms"
"SET","4606.17","2.158","0.448","2.143","2.191","3.231","5.183"

# 4606.17 represents the number of queries per second (or in Redis terms, requests per second (rps))
```

Please note, we used a QPS value of `4500` in our configuration. Using a higher or lower value may result in more or less memory consumption, respectively.

###### Maximum Main Memory

Running this experiment directly on our server (without using the VM) consumes up to 366 GiB of main memory. When we replicated this experiment within the VM, which has 374 GiB of main memory available, we encountered issues due to the additional overhead introduced by the VM, resulting in insufficient main memory. The following sequence controls the number of memory states used, where a higher number results in a larger memory state:

```bash
for action_after_sleep in `seq 1 200`; do
```

We used an upper value of `175` (instead of `200`) when reproducing this experiment in the VM. This slight modification does not impact the overall result, as the time required for fork/address space cloning increases linearly, which can be validated with a smaller upper limit.

###### CPU Pinning

The script employs CPU pinning. Adjust it based on the number of CPU cores available:

```bash
taskset -c ...
```

### MariaDB/Redis - Impact of patch size on patch application time (Figure 10)

#### Redis

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/redis-all-patches
./benchmark
```

##### Description

For each crawled patch that is live-patchable, two runs are performed while Redis is under load (`GET` requests): one applying the patch with local quiescence and one with global quiescence.

#### MariaDB

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/mariadb

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-noop-one-thread-per-connection-all
./do-noop-threadpool-all
```

##### Description

For each crawled patch that is live-patchable, two runs are performed while MariaDB is under load (NoOp benchmark): one applying the patch with local quiescence and one with global quiescence.

### MariaDB - Thread Pool comparison: Priority-based quiescence (our novel approach) vs previous (Rommel et al. [2]) approach

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/experiments/mariadb

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-noop-threadpool-comparison
./do-ycsb-threadpool-comparison
./do-tpcc-threadpool-comparison
```

#### Description

Executes MariaDB with the thread pool policy by comparing our novel priority-based quiescence approach with the previous approach by Rommel et al. [2]. The source code modifications for Rommel et al.'s thread pool quiescence points are located in `~/dbms-live-patching/utils/create-patched-patch-repository/original-mariadb-live-patching/`. These modifications were adapted by us to accommodate the new system calls of the MMView Linux kernel, as their original implementation was for the WfPatch Linux kernel (we made this clear with the different git patch files). To clarify, the deadlocks in their implementation are caused by their *quiescence points*, which are independent of the Linux kernel used and would result in the same issue with the WfPatch Linux kernel.

[2] Florian Rommel, Christian Dietrich, Daniel Friesel, Marcel Köppen, ChristophBorchert, Michael Müller, Olaf Spinczyk, and Daniel Lohmann. 2020. *From Global to Local Quiescence: Wait-Free Code Patching of Multi-Threaded Processes*. In Proc. OSDI. 651–666.
